Welcome! Before you can understand
the importance of securing a network,
you need to know what a network is.
A network is a group of connected devices.
At home, the devices connected to
your network might be your laptop,
cell phones, and smart devices, like
your refrigerator or air conditioner.
In an office, devices like workstations,
printers, and
servers all connect to the network.
The devices on a network can communicate
with each other over network cables, or
wireless connections.
Networks in your home and
office can communicate with networks in other locations,
and the devices on them.
Devices need to find each other on
a network to establish communications.
These devices will use unique addresses, or
identifiers, to locate each other.
The addresses will ensure that
communications happens with
the right device.
These are called the IP and MAC addresses.
Devices can communicate
on two types of networks:
a local area network, also known as a LAN,
and a wide area network, also known as a WAN.
A local area network, or LAN,
spans a small area like an office
building, a school, or a home.
For example, when a personal
device like your cell phone or tablet
connects to the WIFI in your house,
they form a LAN.
The LAN then connects to the internet.
A wide area network or WAN spans
a large geographical area like a city, state,
or country.
You can think of
the internet as one big WAN.
An employee of a company in
San Francisco can communicate and
share resources with another employee
in Dublin, Ireland over the WAN.
Now that you've learned about
the structure and types of networks,
meet me in an upcoming video to learn
about the devices that connect to them.